## Breaking changes (major)

## New Features (minor)

## Bug Fixes (patch)


# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9014 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490.1)

New script to break up COBALT's **nlg** and **silg** into Atlantis' Diatom_N, Diatiom_S, and DinoFlag_N. Addition of new annual forcing files "roms_largephyto_force_*.nc"

As described in [#48](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/48)

# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9013 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490.1)

* Changes to at_biology parameter file to get all species persisting again after the last change to plankton levels. (RCB, LOB, BMS and MEN). Modified MEN assimilation efficiencies
* Changed growth rates and assimilation efficiencies for LOB, RCB and BMS. All previously persisting species continue to persist

As described in [#47](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/47)

# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9012 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490.1)

Work aimed at investigating why the temperature in the forcing files did not mirror observations well. The source of the discrepancy was outside of our model development/processing but other changes were made to the forcing that should improve Atlantis' representation of the ROMS_COBALT output.

* Temperature Diagnostics. Addition of EPU shape files for SOE comparisons
Various scripts aimed at diagnosing temperature (or any forcing) issues with model (i.e. box-level_Scripts to plot NCEI temperature againts ROMS data on various temporal/spatial scales
* Changes to Aggregation. Established workflow for adding new depth layer. Did not substantially improve model temperature. Updated aggregating statistic/methods. Weighted mean of each layers within a cell.
*Updated Forcing Files

As described in [#46](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/46)

# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9011 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490.1)

* Increased Initial Biomass for Lobster and Red Crab
* Decreased predation between and cannibalism by Lobster and Red Crab
* Increased growth on Macroalgae - important food source for Benthic Grazers
* Decreased predation by LOB, RCB, BC, BMS (other crabs) on Benthic Grazers
* Increased growth on BG
* Increased assimilation efficiencies for BG, LOB, RCB
* All benthic species persist to the end. Clams appear to have too high a biomass, so the next step will be to try to bring them down 

As described in [#45](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/45)


# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9010 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490.1)

* update of the correct COBALT v10 output, and includes the ROMS-aggregations scripts, ROMS diagnostics, forcing generation, forcing diagnostics, and Atlantis integration steps. 
* Some scripts have just been updated for a more consistent file naming and directory organization. 
* The biggest change to the final forcing is that the alternative (non-Hydroconstruct) routine was used for temperature and salinity so that it's consistent with the other box variables.

As described in [#44](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/44)


# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9009 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490.1)

* Edited source code to turn on age-structured output flag. This makes the ANNAGEBIO.nc and ANNAGECATCH.nc. This is a temporary fix, and will need to be updated from the SVN when implemented officially.

As described in [#42](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/42)


# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9008 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490)

#### Post-processing Routine split across 3 functions

* get_atl_paramfiles.R: Generates paths for parameter file names
* process_atl_output.R: Creates "result" object similar to the one generated by atlantistools package (modified from RM_preprocess_v2.R)
* make_atlantis_diagnostic_figures.R: Gerenates figures (modified from RM_atl_model_calibration.R)
* test post-processing.R: example call of post-processing functions

#### New file names for R scripts
* Under format Action_Subject_Modifier (i.e. plot_ROMS_summary.R)
organized under common "action" terms

    > make_* = creates non-figure files
    >
    > plot_* = creates figures
    >
    > fix_* = modifies files to correct/adjust values
    >
    > flatten_* = Converts netCDF files into flat files/lists
    >
    > call_* = Scripts that call on existing functions
 
#### Slight modifications to ROMS processing script (make_ROMS_files_2.R)
* Generalized to allow for multi-day input files. Should work for arbitrary length but only tested for annual files.
* Changed call on above script for new COBALT files

As described in [#40](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/40)


# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9007 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490)

* Mackerel and Menhaden Update
* Increased Mackerel recruits
    + Mackerel persists to end now, though at perhaps too high a biomass - will need to be tuned further after next forcing files
* Increased Menhaden recruits, assimilation efficiency and modified age structure of the catch to allow larger age classes to persist better
* Increased growth on Menhaden's first 3 age classes
* Menhaden persists to end now and at about half of Mackerel's biomass

As described in [#37](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/37) & 
[#39](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/39)

# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9006 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490)

#### Major fixes

* Fixes incorrect conversion from COBALT (mol X/ kg H20) to Atlantis (mg X/m3) units
* Updated LTL-Forcing scripts
* Removed initial conditions scaling of forced LTL groups

As described in [#30]( https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/30)

#### Minor fixes

Adds forcing files for NH3, NO3, O2, and Si. Includes:
* New scripts
* Pulling and aggregating data from ROMS_COBALT
* Converting data into Atlantis forcing files
* Plotting variables from nutrient forcing
* Added new nutrient forcing files
* Updated force_WIN_test.prm with nutrient forcing

As described in [#33](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/33)


# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9005 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490)

Tested the run with the COBALT forcing for lower trophic levels
* Herring persisted at full fishing levels - but still drop after the 50th time step, not to as great a magnitude as previously
Increased herring recruit numbers
* Mackerel persist and probably need to have biological parameters reduced a bit to constrain growth

As described in [#31]( https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/31)

# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9004 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490)

* Fixed a recruitment issue with Herring related to a bug in the code if it happens too late in the year

+ This is a fudge, and needs to be reverted once the bug is fixed in Atlantis

* Fixed the lower trophic levels that herring and mackerel rely on, to persist at levels at which starvation isn't an issue

    + Increased the initial biomasses of phytoplankton and zooplankton groups
    + Tweaked the pprey values between the lower trophic levels to keep species from being preyed upon enough to crash
    
* Increased initial biomass values for Mackerel and Herring
* Increased recruits per year for Mackerel and Herring
* Increased assimilation efficiency for Mackerel and Herring

    + Mackerel persists at resonable levels
    + Herring still collapses at time step 51 with normal fishing
    
* Changed the age structure of the catch for Mackerel and Herring to prevent overfishing at lower age classes
* Affects: at_biology_test.prm, at_run_test.prm, at_harvest_test.prm
 
As described in ([#28](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/28))

# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9003 (in dev) 
(built with altantis rev 6490)

Incorporates new LTL forcing, associated parameter file changes, and additional R scripts to process and interpret forcing data ([#26](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/26))


# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9002 (in dev)
(built with altantis rev 6490)

Dynamic and forced models diverge at this point. ROMS_COBALT-Forcing ([#25](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/pull/25))

# neus-atlantis 1.0.0-9001 (in dev)
(built with altantis rev 6490)

* Reduces magnitude of Diatom (PL) bloom and stabilizes closer to initial biomass
    + Reduce mum_PL
    + Increase predation on PL by Meiobenthos (BO) in sediment (reduces sediment accumulation)
    + Decrease cannibalism of BO
* Slight increase in longevity of scallops (SCA) and Lobseter (LOB)
    + Decreased cannibalism in LOB (and other benthic carnivores)
    + Increase grazing of benthic filter feeders (CLA, SCA, QHG, BFF) on PL and decrease consumption of refractory detritus (DR)
* As described [commit](https://github.com/NOAA-EDAB/neus-atlantis/commit/b9ae18adc29c1f55b94da4b61eb9fb0ebadaae04)

Changes to: at_biology.prm


# neus-atlantis 1.0
(built with atlantis rev ??)

Not released. Depreciated

NEFSC [tech memo](https://nefsc.noaa.gov/publications/tm/tm218/): Jason S. Link, Robert J. Gamble, Elizabeth A. Fulton (2011). NEUS – Atlantis: Construction, Calibration, and Application of an Ecosystem Model with Ecological Interactions, Physiographic Conditions, and Fleet Behavior. 
